Hello everyone and welcome to the deck overview lecture.
So we've done overviews on stacks and Qs and we've also done our own implementations of stack and queue
classes so Nelse learn about DEC linear data structure a deck also known as a double and that Q is an
ordered collection of items similar to the cube.
It has two ends of front and rear and the items remain position in the collection.
What makes a deck different is the unrestrictive nature of adding and removing items new items can be
added to either the front or the rear.
So that's a huge difference between a deck and a curious deck.
We can add items in it to the front or the rear of the deck.
Likewise existing items can be removed from either end.
So in a sense this hybrid linear structure provides all the capabilities of stacks and queues in a single
data structure.
It's important to know that even though the deck can assume many of the characteristics of stacks and
queues it does not require the last in first out and first in first out orderings that are enforced
by those data structures.
So it's completely up to you to make consistent use of the addition and removal operations.
OK.
So let's go ahead and see a diagram of this.
So here's just a really simple diagram of what a deck looks like.
You'll notice it looks similar to AQ but in this case we can add and remove items from either ends either
the front or the back.
So that's a pretty big difference.
So let's learn how to implement a deck in the next lecture.
OK.
So I'll see you with the next lecture.
Remember that a deck that's just a review.
The main difference is that you can add items from either end and remove items from either end.
So let's go see how we can implement that.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture